---
title: The WARC Format
status: standard
version: 1.1
numbered: true
latest: true
version-of: warc-format
previous-version: 1.0
---

Websites and web pages emerge and disappear from the World Wide Web
every day. For the past ten years, memory storage organizations have
tried to find the most appropriate ways to collect and keep track of
this vast quantity of important material using web-scale tools such as
web crawlers. A web crawler is a program that browses the web in an
automated manner according to a set of policies; starting with a list of
URLs, it saves each page identified by a URL, finds all the hyperlinks
in the page (e.g. links to other pages, images, videos, scripting or
style instructions, etc.), and adds them to the list of URLs to visit
recursively. Storing and managing the billions of saved web page objects
itself presents a challenge.

At the same time, those same organizations have a rising need to archive
large numbers of digital files not necessarily captured from the web
(e.g. entire series of electronic journals, or data generated by
environmental sensing equipment). A general requirement that appears to
be emerging is for a container format that permits one file simply and
safely to carry a very large number of constituent data objects for the
purpose of storage, management, and exchange. Those data objects (or
resources) need to be of unrestricted type (including many binary types
for audio, CAD, compressed files, etc.), but fortunately the container
needs only minimal knowledge of the nature of the objects. The WARC (Web
ARChive) file format offers a convention for concatenating multiple
resource records (data objects), each consisting of a set of simple text
headers and an arbitrary data block into one long file. The WARC format
is an extension of the ARC file format (ARC) that has traditionally been
used to store "web crawls" as sequences of content blocks harvested from
the World Wide Web. Each capture in an ARC file is preceded by a
one-line header that very briefly describes the harvested content and
its length. This is directly followed by the retrieval protocol response
messages and content. The original ARC format file has been used by the
Internet Archive (IA) since 1996 for managing billions of objects, and
by several national libraries.

The motivation to extend the ARC format arose from the discussion and
experiences of the International Internet Preservation Consortium
(IIPC), whose members include the national libraries of Australia,
Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Iceland, Italy, Norway, Sweden, The
British Library (UK), The Library of Congress (USA), and the Internet
Archive (IA). The California Digital Library and the Los Alamos National
Laboratory also provided input on extending and generalizing the format.
The WARC format offers a standard way to structure, manage and store
billions of resources collected from the web and elsewhere. It is used
to build applications for harvesting, managing, accessing, mining and
exchanging content. While it represents the unique standard format for
web archives, it has been adopted beyond the web archiving community to
store born-digital or digitized materials. The way WARC files will be
created and resources stored and rendered will depend on software and
applications implementations.

Besides the primary content recorded in ARCs, the extended WARC format
accommodates related secondary content, such as assigned metadata,
abbreviated duplicate detection events, later-date transformations, and
segmentation of large resources. The extension may also be useful for
more general applications than web archiving. To aid the development of
tools that are backwards compatible, WARC content is clearly
distinguishable from pre-revision ARC content. The WARC file format is
made sufficiently different from the legacy ARC format files so that
software tools can unambiguously detect and correctly process both WARC
and ARC records; given the large amount of existing archival data in the
previous ARC format, it is important that access and use of this legacy
not be interrupted when transitioning to the WARC format.

Scope
=====

This international standard specifies the WARC file format:

-   to store both the payload content and control information from
    mainstream Internet application layer protocols, such as HTTP, DNS,
    and FTP;

-   to store arbitrary metadata linked to other stored data (e.g.,
    subject classifier, discovered language, encoding);

-   to support data compression and maintain data record integrity;

-   to store all control information from the harvesting protocol (e.g.,
    request headers), not just response information;

-   to store the results of data transformations linked to other stored
    data;

-   to store a duplicate detection event linked to other stored data (to
    reduce storage in the presence of identical or substantially similar
    resources);

-   to be extended without disruption to existing functionality;

-   to support handling of overly long records by truncation or
    segmentation where desired.


Normative references
====================

The following documents, in whole or in part, are normatively referenced
in this document and are indispensable for its application. For dated
references, only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the
latest edition of the referenced document (including any amendments)
applies.

\[RFC 1035\] Mockapetris, P. Domain names — Implementation and
specification. STD 13, November 1987. Available at:
<https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1035.txt>

\[RFC 2045\] Freed, N. and Borenstein, N. Multipurpose Internet Mail
Extensions (MIME) Part One: Format of Internet Message Bodies.
November 1996. Available at: <https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2045.txt>

\[RFC 2540\] Eastlake, D. Detached Domain Name System (DNS) Information.
March 1999. Available at: <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2540>

\[RFC 2616\] Fielding, R., Gettys, J., Mogul, J., Frystyk, H., Masinter,
L., Leach, P. and Berners-Lee, T. Hypertext Transfer Protocol —
HTTP/1.1. June 1999 (TXT, PS, PDF, HTML, XML). Available at:
<https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2616.txt>

\[RFC 3629\] Yergeau, F. UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646. STD
63, November 2003. Available at: <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3629>

Terms, definitions and abbreviated terms
========================================

Terms and definitions
---------------------

For the purposes of this document, the following terms and definitions
apply.

### WARC record

basic constituent of a WARC file, consisting of a sequence of WARC
records

### WARC record content block

part (zero or more octets) of a WARC record that follows the header and
that forms the main body of a WARC record

### WARC record payload

data object referred to, or contained by a WARC record as a meaningful
subset of the content block

### WARC record header

beginning of a WARC record, consisting of one first line declaring the
record to be in the WARC format with a given version number, followed by
lines of named fields up to a blank line

### WARC named fields

set of elements consisting of a name, a colon, and a value, with long
values continued on indented lines

### WARC logical record

in the context of segmentation, a logical record may be composed of
multiple segments, each represented by a WARC record

Abbreviated terms
-----------------

ABNF
: augmented Backus-Naur form

ARC
: archive

CRLF
: carriage return line feed

DNS
: domain name system

FTP
: file transfer protocol

HTTP
: hypertext transport protocol

IANA
: Internet Assigned Numbers Authority

IESG
: Internet Engineering Steering Group

RFC
: request for comments

UR (I/L/N)
: uniform resource (identifier/locator/name)

WARC
: web archive

File and record model
=====================

A WARC format file is the simple concatenation of one or more WARC
records. The first record usually describes the records to follow. In
general, record content is either the direct result of a retrieval
attempt (web pages, inline images, URL redirection information, DNS
hostname lookup results, standalone files, etc.) or is synthesized
material (e.g. metadata, transformed content) that provides additional
information about archived content.

A WARC record shall consist of a record header followed by a record
content block and two new lines. The WARC record header shall consist of
one first line declaring the record to be in the WARC format with a
given version number, then a variable number of line-oriented named
fields terminated by a blank line. The WARC record header format shall
follow the general rules of HTTP/1.1 \[RFC 2616\] and \[RFC 5322\]
headers with one major exception: it shall also allow UTF-8 characters,
as specified in \[RFC 3629\].

The top-level view of a WARC file can be expressed in an ABNF grammar,
reusing the augmented constructs defined in section 2.1 of HTTP/1.1
\[RFC 2616\]. (In particular, note that to avoid the risk of confusion,
where any WARC rule has the same name as an \[RFC 2616\] rule, the
definition here has been made the same, except in the case of the CHAR
rule, which in WARC includes multibyte UTF- 8 characters.)

    warc-file    = 1*warc-record
    warc-record  = header CRLF
                   block CRLF CRLF
    header       = version warc-fields
    version      = "WARC/1.1" CRLF
    warc-fields  = *named-field CRLF
    block        = *OCTET

The record version shall appear first in every record and hence shall
also begin the WARC file itself.

The WARC record relies heavily on named fields. Each named field
consists of a name followed by a colon (":") and the field value. Field
names are not case-sensitive. The field value may be preceded by any
amount of linear white space (LWS), though a single space is preferred.
Header fields can be extended over multiple lines by preceding each
extra line with at least one space or tab character.

Named fields may appear in any order and field values may contain any
UTF-8 character. Both defined- fields and extension-fields follow the
generic named-field format. Extension-fields may be used in extensions
of the core format.

    named-field   = field-name ":" [ field-value ]
    field-name    = token
    field-value   = *( field-content | LWS )     ; further qualified
                                                 ; by field
                                                 ; definitions
    field-content = <the OCTETs making up the field-value and
                    consisting of either *TEXT or combinations of
                    token, separators, and quoted-string>
    OCTET         = <any 8-bit sequence of data>
    token         = 1*<any US-ASCII character>
                    except CTLs or separators>
    separators    = "(" | ")" | "<" | ">" | "@"
                       | "," | ";" | ":" | "\" | <">
                       | "/" | "[" | "]" | "?" | "="
                       | "{" | "}" | SP | HT
    TEXT          = <any OCTET except CTLs,
                    but including LWS>
    CHAR          = <UTF-8 characters; RFC3629>  ; (0-191, 194-244)
    DIGIT         = <any US-ASCII digit "0".."9">
    CTL           = <any US-ASCII control character
                    (octets 0 - 31) and DEL (127)>
    CR            = <ASCII CR, carriage return>  ; (13)
    LF            = <ASCII LF, linefeed>         ; (10)
    SP            = <ASCII SP, space>            ; (32)
    HT            = <ASCII HT, horizontal-tab>   ; (9)
    CRLF          = CR LF
    LWS           = [CRLF] 1*( SP | HT )         ; semantics same as
                                                 ; single SP
    quoted-string = ( <"> *(qdtext | quoted-pair ) <"> )
    qdtext        = <any TEXT except <">>
    quoted-pair   = "\" CHAR ; single-character quoting
    uri           = <'URI' per RFC3986>

Although UTF-8 characters are allowed, the 'encoded-word' mechanism of
\[RFC2047\] may also be used when writing WARC fields and shall also be
understood by WARC reading software.

<small>NOTE: in WARC 1.0 standard (ISO 28500:2009), uri was defined as "<"
<'URI' per RFC 3986> ">". This rule has been changed to meet requests
from implementers.</small>

The rest of the WARC record grammar concerns defined-field parameters
such as record identifier, record type, creation time, content length,
and content type.

    defined-field  = WARC-Type
                   | WARC-Record-ID
                   | WARC-Date
                   | Content-Length
                   | Content-Type
                   | WARC-Concurrent-To
                   | WARC-Block-Digest
                   | WARC-Payload-Digest
                   | WARC-IP-Address
                   | WARC-Refers-To
                   | WARC-Refers-To-Target-URI
                   | WARC-Refers-To-Date
                   | WARC-Target-URI
                   | WARC-Truncated
                   | WARC-Warcinfo-ID
                   | WARC-Filename                 ; warcinfo only
                   | WARC-Profile                  ; revisit only
                   | WARC-Identified-Payload-Type
                   | WARC-Segment-Origin-ID        ; continuation only
                   | WARC-Segment-Number
                   | WARC-Segment-Total-Length     ; continuation only

Every WARC record shall have a type, reported in the WARC-Type field.
Eight WARC record types are defined in this International Standard as
follows:

- 'warcinfo',
- 'response',
- 'resource',
- 'request',
- 'metadata',
- 'revisit',
- 'conversion',
- 'continuation'.

The relevant fields for each record type are described in detail in
Clause 6. Each field's meaning and legal value format are described in
Clause 5.

The record block shall contain octet content, interpreted based on the
record type and other header values. All records shall include a
Content-Length field to specify the length of the block.

Some record types (and possibly future record types) also define a
payload, such as a meaningful subset of the block or content from a
predecessor record. Some headers pertain to the payload of a record
rather than the block directly.

For example, in a 'response' record with a content block consisting of
HTTP headers and a data object, the payload would be the data object.
All 'response', 'resource', 'request', 'revisit', 'conversion' and
'continuation' records may have a payload. All 'warcinfo' and 'metadata'
records shall not have a payload.

Content matching the warc-file rule shall have the MIME content-type
"application/warc", as specified in 8.

Content matching only the warc-fields rule is useful as a simple
descriptive format, and has MIME content-type "application/warc-fields",
as specified in 8.

New named fields and new records types may be defined in extensions of
the core format. However, it is strongly recommended to discuss any
addition to verify that a suitable field or type doesn't already exist
to avoid collision. Discussion should notably be held within the IIPC.
More information on <http://bibnum.bnf.fr/warc/>.

Named fields
============

General
-------

Named fields within a WARC record provide information about the current
record. WARC both reuses appropriate headers from other standards and
defines new headers, all beginning "WARC-", for WARC- specific purposes.

WARC named fields of the same type shall not be repeated in the same
WARC record (for example, a WARC record shall not have several WARC-Date
or several WARC-Target-URI), except as noted (e.g. WARC-Concurrent-To).

Because new fields may be defined in extensions to the core WARC format,
WARC processing software shall ignore fields with unrecognized names.

WARC-Record-ID (mandatory)
--------------------------

A WARC-Record-ID is an identifier assigned to the current record that is
globally unique for its period of intended use. No identifier scheme is
mandated by this specification, but each WARC-Record-ID shall be a legal
URI and clearly indicate a documented and registered scheme to which it
conforms (e.g. via a URI scheme prefix such as "http:" or "urn:"). Care
should be taken to ensure that this value is written with no internal
white space.

    WARC-Record-ID   = "WARC-Record-ID" ":" "<" uri ">"

All records shall have a WARC-Record-ID field.

Content-Length (mandatory)
--------------------------

The Content-Length is the number of octets in the block, similar to \[RFC
2616\]. If no block is present, a value of "0" (zero) shall be used.

    Content-Length   = "Content-Length" ":" 1*DIGIT

All records shall have a Content-Length field.

WARC-Date (mandatory)
---------------------

The WARC-Date is a UTC timestamp as described in the W3C profile of ISO
8601:1988 \[W3CDTF\], for example YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ. The timestamp
shall represent the instant that data capture for record creation began.
Multiple records written as part of a single capture event (see section
5.7) shall use the same WARC-Date, even though the times of their
writing will not be exactly synchronized.

WARC-Date may be specified at any of the levels of granularity described
in \[W3CDTF\]. If WARC-Date includes a decimal fraction of a second, the
decimal fraction of a second shall have a minimum of 1 digit and a
maximum of 9 digits. WARC-Date should be specified with as much
precision as is accurately known. This document recommends no particular
algorithm for access software to choose a record by date when an exact
match is not available.

    WARC-Date = "WARC-Date" ":" w3c-iso8601
    w3c-iso8601 = <a UTC timestamp formatted according to [W3CDTF]>

All records shall have a WARC-Date field.

See Annex A for examples on usage of WARC-Date fields.

WARC-Type (mandatory)
---------------------

WARC-Type is the type of WARC record. Record types defined in this
International Standard are:

- 'warcinfo',
- 'response',
- 'resource',
- 'request',
- 'metadata',
- 'revisit',
- 'conversion', and
- 'continuation'.

Other types of WARC records may be defined in extensions of the core
format. Types are further described in Clause 6.

A WARC file needs not to contain any particular record types, though
starting all WARC files with a 'warcinfo' record is recommended.

    WARC-Type   = "WARC-Type" ":" record-type
    record-type = "warcinfo" | "response" | "resource"
                | "request" | "metadata" | "revisit"
                | "conversion" | "continuation"

All records shall have a WARC-Type field.

WARC processing software shall ignore records of unrecognized type. See
Annex A for examples on usage of WARC-Type fields.

Content-Type
------------

The Content-Type field is the MIME type (as defined in \[RFC 2045\]) of
information contained in the record's block. For example, in HTTP
request and response records, this would be 'application/http' as
specified in 19.1 of \[RFC2616\] (or 'application/http; msgtype=request'
and 'application/http; msgtype=response' respectively). In particular,
the content-type is not the value of the HTTP Content-Type header in a
HTTP response but a MIME type to describe the full archived HTTP message
(hence 'application/http' if the block contains request or response
headers).

    Content-Type  = "Content-Type" ":" media-type
    media-type    = type "/" subtype *( ";" parameter )
    type          = token
    subtype       = token
    parameter     = attribute "=" value
    attribute     = token
    value         = token | quoted-string

All records with a non-empty block (non-zero Content-Length), except
'continuation' records, should have a Content-Type field. Only if the
media type is not given by a Content-Type field, a reader may attempt to
guess the media type via inspection of its content and/or the name
extension(s) of the URI used to identify the resource. If the media type
remains unknown, the reader should treat it as type
"application/octet-stream".

WARC-Concurrent-To
------------------

The WARC-Concurrent-To field (or fields) contains the WARC-Record-ID of
any records created as part of the same capture event as the current
record. A capture event comprises the information automatically gathered
by a retrieval against a single WARC-Target-URI; for example, it may be
represented by a 'response' or 'revisit' record plus its associated
'request' record.

    WARC-Concurrent-To = "WARC-Concurrent-To" ":" "<" uri ">"


This field may be used to associate records of types 'request',
'response', 'resource', 'metadata', and 'revisit' with one another when
they arise from a single capture event. (When so used, any WARC-
Concurrent-To association shall be considered bidirectional even if the
header only appears on one record.) The WARC-Concurrent-To field shall
not be used in 'warcinfo', 'conversion', and 'continuation' records.

As an exception to the general rule, several WARC-Concurrent-To fields
may be repeated within the same WARC record.

See Annex A for examples on usage of WARC-Concurrent-To fields.

WARC-Block-Digest
-----------------


The WARC-Block-Digest is an optional parameter indicating the algorithm
name and calculated value of a digest applied to the full block of the
record.

    WARC-Block-Digest = "WARC-Block-Digest" ":" labelled-digest
    labelled-digest   = algorithm ":" digest-value
    algorithm         = token
    digest-value      = token


An example is a SHA-1 labelled Base32 (\[RFC4648\]) value:

    WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:AB2CD3EF4GH5IJ6KL7MN8OPQ

No particular algorithm is recommended.

Any record may have a WARC-Block-Digest field.

WARC-Payload-Digest
-------------------

A WARC-Payload-Digest is an optional parameter indicating the algorithm name and calculated value of a digest applied to the payload referred to or contained by the record, which is not necessarily equivalent to the record block.

    WARC-Payload-Digest = "WARC-Payload-Digest" ":" labelled-digest

An example is a SHA-1 labelled Base32 (\[RFC4648\]) value:

    WARC-Payload-Digest: sha1:3EF4GH5IJ6KL7MN8OPQAB2CD

No particular algorithm is recommended.

The payload of an application/http block is its 'entity-body' (specified
in \[RFC 2616\]). In contrast to WARC-Block-Digest, the
WARC-Payload-Digest field may also be used for data not actually present
in the current record block, for example when a block is left off in
accordance with a 'revisit' profile (see 6.7), or when a record is
segmented (the WARC-Payload-Digest recorded in the segments of a
segmented record shall be the digest of the payload of the logical
record).

The WARC-Payload-Digest field may be used on WARC records with a
well-defined payload and shall not be used on records without a
well-defined payload.

WARC-IP-Address
---------------

The WARC-IP-Address is the numeric Internet address contacted to
retrieve any included content. An IPv4 address shall be written as a
"dotted quad"; an IPv6 address shall be written as specified in
\[RFC4291\]. For a HTTP retrieval, this will be the IP address used at
retrieval time corresponding to the hostname in the record's target-Uri.

    WARC-IP-Address = "WARC-IP-Address" ":" (ipv4 | ipv6)
    ipv4            = <"dotted quad">
    ipv6            = <per section 2.2 of RFC4291>

The WARC-IP-Address field may be used on 'response', 'resource',
'request', 'metadata', and 'revisit' records, but shall not be used on
'warcinfo', 'conversion' or 'continuation' records.

WARC-Refers-To
--------------

The WARC-Refers-To field contains the WARC-Record-ID of a single record
for which the present record holds additional content.

    WARC-Refers-To  = "WARC-Refers-To" ":" "<" uri ">"

The WARC-Refers-To field may be used to associate a 'metadata' record to
another record it describes. The WARC-Refers-To field may also be used
to associate a record of type 'revisit' or 'conversion' with the
preceding record which helped determine the present record content. The
WARC-Refers-To field shall not be used in 'warcinfo', 'response',
‘resource’, 'request', and 'continuation' records.

See Annex A for examples on usage of WARC-Refers-To fields.

WARC-Refers-To-Target-URI
-------------------------

The WARC-Refers-To-Target-URI field contains the WARC-Target-URI of a
record for which the present record is considered a revisit of.

    WARC-Refers-To-Target-URI = "WARC-Refers-To-Target-URI" ":" uri

The WARC-Refers-To-Target-URI field may be used to associate a record of
type 'revisit' with another record which contains the resource which has
not been archived.

The WARC-Refers-To-Target-URI field may be used in ‘revisit’ records and
shall not be used in 'warcinfo', 'response', 'metadata', 'conversion',
‘resource’, 'request', and 'continuation' records.

WARC-Refers-To-Date
-------------------

The WARC-Refers-To-Date field contains the WARC-Date of a record for
which the present record is considered a revisit of.

    WARC-Refers-To-Date = "WARC-Refers-To-Date" ":" w3c-iso8601
    w3c-iso8601         = <a UTC timestamp formatted according to
                          [W3CDTF]>

The WARC-Refers-To-Date field may be used to associate a record of type
'revisit' with another record which contains the resource which has not
been archived.

The WARC-Refers-To-Date field may be used in ‘revisit’ records and shall
not be used in 'warcinfo', 'response', 'metadata', 'conversion',
‘resource’, 'request', and 'continuation' records.

WARC-Target-URI
---------------

The WARC-Target-URI is the original URI whose capture gave rise to the
information content in this record. In the context of web harvesting,
this is the URI that was the target of a crawler's retrieval request.
For a 'revisit' record, it is the URI that was the target of a retrieval
request. Indirectly, such as for a 'metadata', or 'conversion' record,
it is a copy of the WARC-Target-URI appearing in the original record to
which the newer record pertains. The URI in this value shall be written
as specified in \[RFC 3986\].

    WARC-Target-URI    = "WARC-Target-URI" ":" uri

All 'response', 'resource', 'request', 'revisit', ‘conversion’ and
'continuation' records shall have a WARC- Target-URI field. A 'metadata'
record may have a WARC-Target-URI field. A 'warcinfo' record shall not
have a WARC-Target-URI field.

WARC-Truncated
--------------

For practical reasons, writers of the WARC format may place limits on
the time or storage allocated to archiving a single resource. As a
result, only a truncated portion of the original resource may be
available for saving into a WARC record.

Any record may indicate that truncation of its content block has
occurred and give the reason with a WARC-Truncated field.

    WARC-Truncated = "WARC-Truncated" ":" reason-token
    reason-token   = "length"         ; exceeds configured max
                                      ; length
                   | "time"           ; exceeds configured max time
                   | "disconnect"     ; network disconnect
                   | "unspecified"    ; other/unknown reason

Other reasons may be defined in extensions of the core format.

For example, if the capture of what appeared to be a multi-gigabyte
resource was cut short after a transfer time limit was reached, the
partial resource could be saved to a WARC record with this field.

The WARC-Truncated field may be used on any WARC record. The WARC
Content-Length field shall still report the actual truncated size of the
record block.

WARC-Warcinfo-ID
----------------

When present, the WARC-Warcinfo-ID indicates the WARC-Record-ID of the
associated 'warcinfo' record for this record. Typically, the
WARC-Warcinfo-ID parameter is used when the context of the applicable
'warcinfo' record is unavailable, such as after distributing single
records into separate WARC files. WARC writing applications (such as web
crawlers) may choose to always record this parameter.

    WARC-Warcinfo-ID = "WARC-Warcinfo-ID" ":" "<" uri ">"

The WARC-Warcinfo-ID field value overrides any association with a
previously occurring (in the WARC) 'warcinfo' record, thus providing a
way to protect the true association when records are combined from
different WARC files.

The WARC-Warcinfo-ID field may be used in any record type except 'warcinfo'.

WARC-Filename
-------------

The WARC-Filename is the filename containing the current 'warcinfo' record.

    WARC-Filename = "WARC-Filename" ":" ( TEXT | quoted-string )

The WARC-Filename field may be used in 'warcinfo' type records and shall
not be used for other record types.

WARC-Profile
------------

The WARC-Profile is a URI signifying the kind of analysis and handling
applied in a 'revisit' record. (Like an XML namespace, the URI may, but
needs not, return human-readable or machine-readable documentation.) If
reading software does not recognize the given URI as a supported kind of
handling, it shall not attempt to interpret the associated record block.

    WARC-Profile = "WARC-Profile" ":" uri

The section 'revisit' defines two initial profile options for the
WARC-Profile header for 'revisit' records. The WARC-Profile field is
mandatory on 'revisit' type records and undefined for other record
types.

WARC-Identified-Payload-Type
----------------------------

The content-type of the record's payload as determined by an independent
check. This string shall not be arrived at by blindly promoting an HTTP
Content-Type value up from a record block into the WARC header without
direct analysis of the payload, as such values may often be unreliable.

    WARC-Identified-Payload-Type = "WARC-Identified-Payload-Type" ":"
                                   media-type

The WARC-Identified-Payload-Type field may be used on WARC records with
a well-defined payload and shall not be used on records without a
well-defined payload.

WARC-Segment-Number
-------------------

The WARC-Segment-Number reports the current record's relative ordering
in a sequence of segmented records.

    WARC-Segment-Number = "WARC-Segment-Number" ":" 1*DIGIT

In the first segment of any record that is completed in one or more
later 'continuation' WARC records, this parameter is mandatory. Its
value there is "1". In a 'continuation' record, this parameter is also
mandatory. Its value is the sequence number of the current segment in
the logical whole record, increasing by 1 in each next segment.

See Clause 7 on record segmentation for full details on the use of WARC
record segmentation.

WARC-Segment-Origin-ID
----------------------

The WARC-Segment-Origin-ID identifies the starting record in a series of segmented records whose content blocks are reassembled to obtain a logically complete content block.

    WARC-Segment-Origin-ID = "WARC-Segment-Origin-ID" ":" "<" uri ">"

This field is mandatory on all 'continuation' records, and shall not be
used in other records. See Clause 7 on record segmentation for full
details on the use of WARC record segmentation.

WARC-Segment-Total-Length
-------------------------

In the final record of a segmented series, the WARC-Segment-Total-Length
reports the total length of all segment content blocks when concatenated
together.

    WARC-Segment-Total-Length = "WARC-Segment-Total-Length" ":" 1*DIGIT

This field is mandatory on the last 'continuation' record of a series,
and shall not be used elsewhere. See Clause 7 on record segmentation for
full details on the use of WARC record segmentation.

WARC Record Types
=================

General
-------

The purpose and use of each defined record type is described in 6.2 to 6.9.

Because new record types that extend the WARC format may be defined in
future versions of the WARC standard, WARC processing software shall
skip records of unknown type.

'warcinfo'
----------

A 'warcinfo' record describes the records that follow it, up through end
of file, end of input, or until next 'warcinfo' record. Typically, this
appears once and at the beginning of a WARC file. For a web archive, it
often contains information about the web crawl which generated the
following records.

The format of this descriptive record block may vary, though the use of
the "application/warc-fields" content-type is recommended. Allowable
fields include, but are not limited to, all \[DCMI\] plus the following
field definitions. All fields are optional.

1. 'operator': contact information for the operator who created this
    WARC resource. A name or name and email address is recommended.
2. 'software': the software and software version used to create this
   WARC resource. For example, "heritrix/1.12.0".
3. 'robots': the robots policy followed by the harvester creating this
   WARC resource. The string 'classic' indicates the 1994 web robots
   exclusion standard rules are being obeyed.
4. 'hostname': the hostname of the machine that created this WARC
   resource, such as "crawling17.archive.org".
5. 'ip': the IP address of the machine that created this WARC resource,
   such as "123.2.3.4".
6. 'http-header-user-agent': the HTTP 'user-agent' header usually sent
   by the harvester along with each request. Note that if 'request'
   records are used to save verbatim requests, this information is
   redundant. (If a 'request' or 'metadata' record reports a different
   'user-agent' for a specific request, the more specific information
   should be considered more reliable.)
7. 'http-header-from': the HTTP 'from' header usually sent by the
   harvester along with each request. (The same considerations as for
   'user-agent' apply.)

It may also contain technical information such as base encoding of the
digests used in named fields.

So that multiple record excerpts from inside WARC files are also valid
WARC files, it is optional that the first record of a legal WARC be a
'warcinfo' description. Also, to allow the concatenation of WARC files
into a larger valid WARC file, it is allowable for 'warcinfo' records to
appear anywhere in a WARC file.

See B.1 for an example of a 'warcinfo' record.

'response'
----------

### General

A 'response' record should contain a complete scheme-specific response,
including network protocol information, where possible. The exact
contents of a 'response' record are determined not just by the record
type but also by the URI scheme of the record's target-URI, as described
in 6.3.2 to 6.3.3.

See B.2 for an example of a 'response' record.

### 'http' and 'https' schemes

For a target-URI of the 'http' or 'https' schemes, a 'response' record
block should contain the full HTTP response received over the network,
including headers, i.e. it contains the 'response' message defined by
section 6 of HTTP/1.1 (\[RFC 2616\]), or by any previous or subsequent
version of HTTP compatible with section 6 of HTTP/1.1 (\[RFC 2616\]).

The WARC record's Content-Type field should contain the value defined by
HTTP/1.1, "application/http;msgtype=response". When software bugs,
network issues, or implementation limits cause response-like material to
be collected that is not perfectly compliant with HTTP specifications,
WARC writing software may record the problematic content using its best
effort determination of the interesting material boundaries. That is,
neither the use of the 'response' record with a 'http' target-URI nor
the 'application/http' content-type serves as an absolute guarantee that
the contained material is a legal HTTP response.

A WARC-IP-Address field should be used to record the network IP address
from which the response material was received.

### Other URI schemes

The contents of the 'response' record for other URI schemes are not
specified in this International Standard.

other URI schemes.

'resource'
----------

### General

A 'resource' record contains a resource, without full protocol response
information. For example: a file directly retrieved from a locally
accessible repository or the result of a networked retrieval where the
protocol information has been discarded. The exact contents of a
'resource' record are determined not just by the record type but also by
the URI scheme of the record's target-URI, as described in 6.4.2 to
6.4.5.

For all 'resource' records, the payload is defined as the record block.

A 'resource' record, with a synthesized target-URI, may also be used to
archive other artefacts of a harvesting process inside WARC files.

See B.3 for an example of a 'resource' record.

### 'http' and 'https' schemes

For a target-URI of the 'http' or 'https' schemes, a 'resource' record
block shall contain the returned 'entity-body' (as specified in \[RFC
2616\]), possibly truncated.

### 'ftp' scheme

For a target-URI of the 'ftp' scheme, a 'resource' record block shall
contain the complete file returned by an FTP operation, possibly
truncated.

### 'dns' scheme

For a target-URI of the 'dns' scheme (\[RFC 4501\]), a 'resource' record
shall contain material of content- type 'text/dns' (registered by \[RFC
4027\] and defined by \[RFC 2540\] and \[RFC 1035\]) representing the
results of a single DNS lookup as described by the target-URI.

### Other URI schemes

The contents of the 'resource' record for other URI schemes are not specified in this International Standard.

'request'
---------

### General

A 'request' record holds the details of a complete scheme-specific
request, including network protocol information, where possible. The
exact contents of a 'request' record are determined not just by the
record type but also by the URI scheme of the record's target-URI, as
described below (from 6.5.2 to 6.5.3).

See B.4 for an example of a 'request' record.

### 'http' and 'https' schemes

For a target-URI of the 'http' or 'https' schemes, a 'request' record
block should contain the full HTTP request sent over the network,
including headers. That is, it contains the 'request' message defined by
section 5 of HTTP/1.1 \[RFC 2616\], or by any previous or subsequent
version of HTTP compatible with section 5 of HTTP/1.1 \[RFC 2616\].

The WARC record's Content-Type field should contain the value defined by
HTTP/1.1, "application/http;msgtype=request".

A WARC-IP-Address field should be used to record the network IP address
to which the request material was directed.

A WARC-Concurrent-To field (or fields) may be used to associate the
'request' to a matching 'response' record or concurrently-created
'metadata' record.

The payload of a 'request' record with a target-URI of scheme 'http' or
'https' is defined as its 'entity- body' (as specified in \[RFC 2616\]).
If a truncated 'request' record block contains less than the full
entity- body, the payload is considered truncated at the same position.

Conventions for recording information about the 'https' secure socket
transaction, such as certificates exchanged, consulted, or verified, are
not in the scope of this International Standard.

### Other URI schemes

This document does not specify the contents of the 'request' record for
other URI schemes.

'metadata'
----------

A 'metadata' record contains content created in order to further
describe, explain, or accompany a harvested resource, in ways not
covered by other record types. A 'metadata' record will almost always
refer to another record of another type, with that other record holding
original harvested or transformed content. (However, it is allowable for
a 'metadata' record to refer to any record type, including other
'metadata' records.) Any number of metadata records may reference
another specific record.

The format of the metadata record block may vary. The
"application/warc-fields" format may be used. Allowable fields include
all \[DCMI\] plus the following field definitions. All fields are
optional.

- 'via': the referring URI from which the archived URI was discovered.
- 'hopsFromSeed': a symbolic string describing the type of each hop from
  a starting 'seed' URI to the current URI.
- 'fetchTimeMs': time in milliseconds that it took to collect the
  archived URI, starting from the initiation of network traffic.

A 'metadata' record may be associated with other records derived from
the same capture event using the WARC-Concurrent-To header. A 'metadata'
record may be associated to another record which it describes, using the
WARC-Refers-To header.

See B.5 for an example of a 'metadata' record.

'revisit'
---------

### General

A 'revisit' record describes the revisitation of content already
archived, and might include only an abbreviated content body which has
to be interpreted relative to a previous record. Most typically, a
'revisit' record is used instead of a 'response' or 'resource' record to
indicate that the content visited was either a complete or substantial
duplicate of material previously archived.

Using a 'revisit' record instead of another type is optional, for when
benefits of reduced storage size or improved cross-referencing of
material are desired.

A 'revisit' record shall contain a WARC-Profile field which determines
the interpretation of the record's fields and record block. Two initial
values and their interpretation are described in the following sections.
A reader which does not recognize the profile URI shall not attempt to
interpret the enclosing record or associated content body.

The purpose of this record type is to reduce storage redundancy when
repeatedly retrieving identical or little-changed content, while still
recording that a revisit occurred, plus details about the current state
of the visited content relative to the archived version.

See B.6 for an example of a 'revisit' record.

### Profile: Identical Payload Digest

This 'revisit' profile may be used whenever a subsequent consideration
of a URI provides payload content which a strong digest function, such
as SHA-1, indicates is identical to a previously archived version. It is
not necessary that the URI of the original capture and the revisit be
identical.

To indicate this profile, use the URI:

http://netpreserve.org/warc/1.1/revisit/identical-payload-digest

To report the payload digest used for comparison, a 'revisit' record
using this profile shall include a WARC-Payload-Digest field, with a
value of the digest that was calculated on the payload.

A 'revisit' record using this profile may have no record block, in which
case a Content-Length of zero must be written. If a record block is
present, it shall be interpreted the same as a 'response' record type
for the same URI, but truncated to avoid storing the duplicate content.
A WARC-Truncated header with reason 'length' shall be used for any
identical-digest truncation. It is recommended that server response
headers be preserved in the revisit record in this manner.

For records using this profile, the payload is defined as the original
payload content whose digest value was unchanged.

Using a WARC-Refers-To header to identify a specific prior record from
which the matching content can be retrieved is recommended, to minimize
the risk of misinterpreting the 'revisit' record. The following two
optional fields can also be used to associate the revisit record with
the original record. Their use is recommended:

- WARC-Refers-To-Target-URI. Its value should be equal to the
  WARC-Target-URI in the WARC record that the current record is
  considered a duplicate of.
- WARC-Refers-To-Date. Its value should be equal to the WARC-Date in the
  WARC record that the current record is considered a duplicate of.

### Profile: Server Not Modified

This 'revisit' profile may be used whenever a subsequent consideration
of a URI encounters an assertion from the providing server that the
content has not changed, such as a HTTP "304 Not Modified" response.

To indicate this profile, use the URI:

http://netpreserve.org/warc/1.1/revisit/server-not-modified

A 'revisit' record using this profile may have no content body, in which
case a Content-Length of zero shall be written. If a content body is
present, it should be interpreted the same as a 'response' record type
for the same URI, truncated if desired.

For records using this profile, the payload is defined as the original
payload content from which a 'Last- Modified' and/or 'ETag' value was
taken.

Using a WARC-Refers-To header to identify a specific prior record from
which the unmodified content can be retrieved is recommended, to
minimize the risk of misinterpreting the 'revisit' record. WARC-
Refers-To-Date may be optionally used to help resolve the original
capture. Its value should be equal to the WARC-Date in the WARC record
that the current record is considered a duplicate of. Its use is
recommended.

### Other profiles

Other documents may define additional profiles to accomplish other
goals, such as recording the apparent magnitude of difference from the
previous visit, or to encode the visited content as a "diff" (where
"diff" is the file comparison utility that outputs the differences
between two files) of the content previously stored.

'conversion'
------------

A 'conversion' record shall contain an alternative version of another
record's content that was created as the result of an archival process.
Typically, this is used to hold content transformations that maintain
viability of content after widely available rendering tools for the
originally stored format disappear. As needed, the original content may
be migrated (transformed) to a more viable format in order to keep the
information usable with current tools while minimizing loss of
information (intellectual content, look and feel, etc.). Any number of
'conversion' records may be created that reference a specific source
record, which may itself contain transformed content. Each
transformation should result in a freestanding, complete record, with no
dependency on survival of the original record.

Wherever practical, a 'conversion' record should contain a
WARC-Refers-To field so as to identify the prior material converted.

Metadata records may be used to further describe transformation records.
For 'conversion' records, the payload is defined as the record block.

See B.7 for an example of a 'conversion' record.

'continuation'
--------------

Record blocks from 'continuation' records must be appended to
corresponding prior record block(s) (e.g. from other WARC files) to
create the logically complete full-sized original record. That is,
'continuation' records are used when a record that would otherwise cause
a WARC file size to exceed a desired limit is broken into segments. A
continuation record shall contain the named fields WARC-
Segment-Origin-ID and WARC-Segment-Number, and the last 'continuation'
record of a series shall contain a WARC-Segment-Total-Length field. The
full details of WARC record segmentation are described in Clause 7.

See B.8 for an example of a 'continuation' record.

Record segmentation
===================

A record that will not fit into a single WARC file of desired maximum
size may be broken into a number of separate records, called segments.

The first segment of a segmented series shall carry the original record
type (not 'continuation'), and a WARC-Segment-Number field with a value
of "1".

All subsequent segments shall have a record type of 'continuation', with
an incremented WARC- Segment-Number field. They shall also include a
WARC-Segment-Origin-ID field with a value of the WARC-Record-ID of the
record containing the first segment of the set. All segments of a set
shall have identical target-URI values. Segments may have individual
WARC-Block-Digest fields.

The last segment shall contain a WARC-Segment-Total-Length field
specifying the total length, in bytes, of all segment content blocks, if
reassembled. The last segment may also contain a WARC-Truncated field,
if appropriate.

The WARC-Payload-Digest recorded in the first segment of a segmented
record is the digest of the payload of the logical record.

Segments other than the first should not contain other optional fields,
as segments merely serve to continue the record data block of the first
record.

To reassemble all segments into the intended complete logical record,
the content blocks of all records with the same 'WARC-Segment-Origin-ID'
value are collected and appended, in 'WARC-Segment- Number' order, to
the origin record's content block. The resulting assembled record adopts
as its Content-Length the 'WARC-Segment-Total-Length' value. It also
adopts any 'WARC-Truncated' reason of the final segment.

Segmentation shall not be used if there is another way to store the
record within the desired WARC file target size. Specifically, if a
record could be stored without segmentation by starting a new WARC file,
segmentation shall not be used. Further, when segmentation is used, the
size of the first segment shall be maximized. Specifically, the origin
segment shall be placed in a new WARC file, preceded only by a
'warcinfo' record (if any).

Segmentation may be applied to any original record type other than
'continuation', but its use on 'warcinfo', 'request', 'metadata' and
'revisit' records is not recommended.

WARC file name, size and compression
====================================

The MIME type of a WARC file shall be application/warc.

The MIME type of warcinfo records, WARC metadata records, and
potentially other records types in the future, shall be
application/warc-fields.

A WARC file shall have a name. See Annex C for recommendations on WARC
files names.

It is recommended to limit the size of a WARC file. See Annex C for a
recommended size limit according to experience.

WARC files may be compressed. See Annex D for recommendations on WARC
file compression.

Annex A. *(informative)* Use cases for writing WARC records
===========================================================

Different use cases are listed in Tables A.1 to A.5, which develop some
situations where WARC files and WARC records may be generated. These use
cases correspond to the needs of the web archiving community.

Note: in a web harvesting context, the files constituting the websites
are stored as WARC records in WARC files. Depending on the web
harvesting process configuration, the different pieces of a website
might not be contained in a single WARC file or in a set of WARC files
but might be spread out and stored along pieces of other harvested
websites. Thus, to render the archive of a website to users, access
software might have to extract files contained in WARC records from
different WARC files. External indexes might be used for a quicker
access.

Other use cases might be conceived by other users to satisfy their own
needs. Moreover, solutions adopted for each use case are not the only
solutions that may be used. These are presented as examples.

The first column in each table describes the use case and its different
steps. The second column in each table indicates what type of record is
generated. Only the most complex named fields are specified in order to
clarify the use of these fields: WARC-Type (mandatory field), WARC-Date
(mandatory field), WARC-Concurrent-To (optional field), WARC-Refers-To
(optional field). The other mandatory or useful named fields are not
presented in this International Standard.

It has been assumed that these WARC records are written in an already
opened WARC file, containing a 'warcinfo' record.

## Table A.1

Use case one: An archiving crawler fetches
http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf from the World
Wide Web and writes it in a WARC file

<div class="table-responsive">
<table class="table table-bordered">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>
A request is sent by the crawler to the server hosting
http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf
</td>
<td>
<b>WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Type: request
WARC-Date: 2007-10-24T10:14:22Z
WARC-Concurrent-To: <i>WARC-Record ID of 
        the following ‘response’ record</i>
</pre>
</td>
</tr>
<tr><td>
A response is received by the crawler from the server
</td><td>
<b>WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Type: response
WARC-Date: 2007-10-24T10:14:22Z
</pre>
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
Metadata further describing the harvesting process / the harvested
record are added (e.g. information coming from the log files)
</td><td>
<b>WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Type: metadata
WARC-Date: 2007-10-24T10:14:22Z
WARC-Concurrent-To: <i>WARC-Record ID of 
        the previous ‘response’ record</i>
</pre>
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
If the file harvested on the web is too big to be contained in a single
WARC file (e.g. 1,5 GB), the WARC record is segmented and a second
record is created
</td><td>
<b>Second WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Type: continuation
WARC-Date: 2007-10-24T10:14:22Z
</pre>
</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Table A.2

Use case two: The XML version of the French Gazette of 2007-11-01 has
been transferred to the National Library of France (via FTP or email)
and is written in a WARC file

<div class="table-responsive">
<table class="table table-bordered">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>
The resource is archived
</td>
<td>
<b>WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Type: resource
WARC-Date: 2007-11-02T15:20:44Z
</pre>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Metadata further describing the archiving process / the archived record
are added (e.g. information about the transfer)
</td>
<td>
<b>WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Type: metadata
WARC-Date: 2007-11-02T15:20:44Z
WARC-Concurrent-To: <i>WARC-Record ID of 
        the previous ‘resource’ record</i>
</pre>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Table A.3

Use case three: An archiving crawler fetches
http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf from the World
Wide Web that has not changed since the latest harvest

<div class="table-responsive">
<table class="table table-bordered">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>
A request is sent by the crawler to the server hosting
http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf
</td>
<td>
<b>WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Type: request
WARC-Date: 2007-11-24T18:28:24Z
WARC-Concurrent-To: <i>WARC-Record ID of 
        the following ‘revisit’ record</i>
</pre>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
The crawler detects that the file is the same as previously archived and
that it has not changed. The entire file is not recorded to avoid
duplicates and reduce storage redundancy
</td>
<td>
<b>WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Type: revisit
WARC-Date: 2007-11-24T18:28:24Z
WARC-Refers-To: <i>WARC-Record ID of
        the already written record</i>
</pre>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Table A.4

Use case four: After the end of the harvest, Jhove is used to validate
the format of http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf and
the validation results are stored in a WARC file and linked to the
corresponding record

<div class="table-responsive">
<table class="table table-bordered">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>
Results of the validation process are added in another WARC file
</td>
<td>
<b>WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Type: metadata
Date: 2007-11-01T20:54:02Z
WARC-Refers-To: <i>WARC-Record ID of 
        the described WARC record</i>
</pre>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Table A.5

Use case five: http://netpreserve.org/reports/iipc2007conference.pdf
file format has become obsolete as it cannot be read anymore by the
existing rendering tools

<div class="table-responsive">
<table class="table table-bordered">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>
A file in the new format is generated
</td>
<td>
<b>WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Type: conversion
WARC-Date: 2020-01-23T16:14:32Z
WARC-Refers-To: <i>WARC-Record ID of 
        the WARC record whose payload
        has been migrated</i>
</pre>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Metadata describing the migration process are added (e.g. tool used)
</td>
<td>
<b>WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Type: metadata
WARC-Date: 2020-01-23T16:14:32Z
WARC-Refers-To: <i>WARC-Record ID of 
        the previous conversion record</i>
</pre>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>  

## Table A.6

Different use cases for record timestamps, featuring different levels of
precision

<div class="table-responsive">
<table class="table table-bordered">
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>Description of use case</th>
<th>Record generated</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
A web page has been captured by a WARC 1.1 compliant crawler
</td>
<td>
<b>WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Date: 2016-01-11T23:24:25.412030Z
</pre>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
A web page has been captured by a legacy crawler
</td>
<td>
<b>WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Date: 2016-01-11T23:24:25Z
</pre>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
A video has been donated by a website owner and converted to the WARC
format
</td>
<td>
<b>WARC record created:</b>
<pre>
WARC-Date: 2016-01
</pre>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

Annex B: *(informative)* Examples of WARC records
=================================================

Example of 'warcinfo' record 
----------------------------

    WARC/1.1
    WARC-Type: warcinfo
    WARC-Date: 2006-09-19T17:20:14Z
    WARC-Record-ID: <urn:uuid:d7ae5c10-e6b3-4d27-967d-34780c58ba39>
    Content-Type: application/warc-fields
    Content-Length: 381

    software: Heritrix 1.12.0 http://crawler.archive.org
    hostname: crawling017.archive.org
    ip: 207.241.227.234
    isPartOf: testcrawl-20050708
    description: testcrawl with WARC output
    operator: IA\_Admin
    http-header-user-agent:
     Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; heritrix/1.4.0 +http://crawler.archive.org)
    format: WARC file version 1.1
    conformsTo:
     http://iipc.github.io/warc-specifications/specifications/warc-format/warc-1.1/

Example of 'response' record
----------------------------

    WARC/1.1
    WARC-Type: response
    WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg
    WARC-Warcinfo-ID: <urn:uuid:d7ae5c10-e6b3-4d27-967d-34780c58ba39>
    WARC-Date: 2016-09-19T17:20:24Z
    WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:UZY6ND6CCHXETFVJD2MSS7ZENMWF7KQ2
    WARC-Payload-Digest: sha1:CCHXETFVJD2MUZY6ND6SS7ZENMWF7KQ2
    WARC-IP-Address: 207.241.233.58
    WARC-Record-ID: <urn:uuid:92283950-ef2f-4d72-b224-f54c6ec90bb0>
    Content-Type: application/http;msgtype=response
    WARC-Identified-Payload-Type: image/jpeg
    Content-Length: 1902

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Date: Tue, 19 Sep 2016 17:18:40 GMT
    Server: Apache/2.0.54 (Ubuntu)
    Last-Modified: Mon, 16 Jun 2013 22:28:51 GMT
    ETag: "3e45-67e-2ed02ec0"
    Accept-Ranges: bytes
    Content-Length: 1662
    Connection: close
    Content-Type: image/jpeg

    [image/jpeg binary data here]


Example of 'resource' record
----------------------------

    WARC/1.1
    WARC-Type: resource
    WARC-Target-URI: file://var/www/htdoc/images/logoc.jpg
    WARC-Date: 2016-09-30T16:40:32Z
    WARC-Record-ID: <urn:uuid:23200706-de3e-3c61-a131-g65d7fd80cc1>
    Content-Type: image/jpeg
    WARC-Payload-Digest: sha1:DBXHDRBXLF4OMUZ5DN4JJ2KFUAOB6VK8
    WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:DBXHDRBXLF4OMUZ5DN4JJ2KFUAOB6VK8
    Content-Length: 1662

    [image/jpeg binary data here]

Example of 'request' record
---------------------------

    WARC/1.1
    WARC-Type: request
    WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg
    WARC-Warcinfo-ID: <urn:uuid:d7ae5c10-e6b3-4d27-967d-34780c58ba39>
    WARC-Date: 2016-09-19T17:20:24Z
    Content-Length: 236
    WARC-Record-ID: <urn:uuid:4885803b-eebd-4b27-a090-144450c11594>
    Content-Type: application/http;msgtype=request
    WARC-Concurrent-To: <urn:uuid:92283950-ef2f-4d72-b224-f54c6ec90bb0>

    GET /images/logoc.jpg HTTP/1.0
    User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; heritrix/1.10.0)
    From: stack@example.org
    Connection: close
    Referer: http://www.archive.org/
    Host: www.archive.org
    Cookie: PHPSESSID=009d7bb11022f80605aa87e18224d824

Example of 'metadata' record
----------------------------

    WARC/1.1
    WARC-Type: metadata
    WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg
    WARC-Date: 2016-09-19T17:20:24Z
    WARC-Record-ID: <urn:uuid:16da6da0-bcdc-49c3-927e-57494593b943>
    WARC-Concurrent-To: <urn:uuid:92283950-ef2f-4d72-b224-f54c6ec90bb0>
    Content-Type: application/warc-fields
    WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:VXT4AF5BBZVHDYKNC2CSM8TEAWDB6CH8
    Content-Length: 59

    via: http://www.archive.org/
    hopsFromSeed: E
    fetchTimeMs: 565

Example of 'revisit' record
---------------------------

    WARC/1.1
    WARC-Type: revisit
    WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg
    WARC-Date: 2017-06-23T12:43:35Z
    WARC-Profile: http://netpreserve.org/warc/1.1/server-not-modified
    WARC-Record-ID: <urn:uuid:16da6da0-bcdc-49c3-927e-57494593bbbb>
    WARC-Refers-To: <urn:uuid:92283950-ef2f-4d72-b224-f54c6ec90bb0>
    WARC-Refers-To-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg
    WARC-Refers-To-Date: 2016-09-19T17:20:24Z
    Content-Type: message/http
    Content-Length: 226

    HTTP/1.x 304 Not Modified
    Date: Tue, 06 Mar 2017 00:43:35 GMT
    Server: Apache/2.0.54 (Ubuntu) PHP/5.0.5-2ubuntu1.4 Connection: Keep-Alive
    Keep-Alive: timeout=15, max=100
    ETag: "3e45-67e-2ed02ec0"

Example of 'conversion' record
------------------------------

    WARC/1.1
    WARC-Type: conversion
    WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg
    WARC-Date: 2026-09-19T19:00:40Z
    WARC-Record-ID: <urn:uuid:27ef1r9j-defr-25f9-328r-16859347dddd>
    WARC-Refers-To: <urn:uuid:92283950-ef2f-4d72-b224-f54c6ec90bb0>
    WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:XQMRY75YY42ZWC6JAT6KNXKD37F7MOEK
    Content-Type: image/neoimg
    Content-Length: 934

    [image/neoimg binary data here]

Example of segmentation ('continuation' record) 
-----------------------------------------------

Take the example of the 'response' record given in B.2 and segment it to
fit in a WARC file no larger than 2K. The first WARC file would contain
the first segment, a record of type 'response' with a WARC-
Segment-Number of 1. Note that the block-digest has changed (as the
block is no longer the same as the stand-alone 'response' record) but
the payload-digest has not changed, as the reassembled record will have
the same internal payload.

    WARC/1.1
    WARC-Type: response
    WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg
    WARC-Date: 2016-09-19T17:20:24Z
    WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:2ASS7ZUZY6ND6CCHXETFVJDENAWF7KQ2
    WARC-Payload-Digest: sha1:CCHXETFVJD2MUZY6ND6SS7ZENMWF7KQ2
    WARC-IP-Address: 207.241.233.58
    WARC-Record-ID: <urn:uuid:39509228-ae2f-11b2-763a-aa4c6ec90bb0>
    WARC-Segment-Number: 1
    Content-Type: application/http;msgtype=response
    Content-Length: 1600

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Date: Tue, 19 Sep 2016 17:18:40 GMT
    Server: Apache/2.0.54 (Ubuntu)
    Last-Modified: Mon, 16 Jun 2013 22:28:51 GMT
    ETag: "3e45-67e-2ed02ec0"
    Accept-Ranges: bytes
    Content-Length: 1662
    Connection: close
    Content-Type: image/jpeg

    [first 1360 bytes of image/jpeg binary data here]

The next file would contain the 'continuation' record, with fields to
identify the start of the segmentation series (WARC-Segment-Origin-ID),
to indicate this record's place in the series (WARC- Segment-Number),
and to report that this is the last record and what the total size is
(WARC-Segment- Total-Length).

    WARC/1.1
    WARC-Type: continuation
    WARC-Target-URI: http://www.archive.org/images/logoc.jpg
    WARC-Date: 2016-09-19T17:20:24Z
    WARC-Block-Digest: sha1:T7HXETFVA92MSS7ZENMFZY6ND6WF7KB7
    WARC-Payload-Digest: sha1:CCHXETFVJD2MUZY6ND6SS7ZENMWF7KQ2
    WARC-Record-ID: <urn:uuid:70653950-a77f-b212-e434-7a7c6ec909ef>
    WARC-Segment-Origin-ID: <urn:uuid:39509228-ae2f-11b2-763a-aa4c6ec90bb0>
    WARC-Segment-Number: 2
    WARC-Segment-Total-Length: 1902
    WARC-Identified-Payload-Type: image/jpeg
    Content-Length: 302

    [last 302 bytes of image/jpeg binary data here]

Annex C: *(informative)* WARC file size and name recommendations
================================================================

It is recommended to use 1 GB (10<sup>9</sup> bytes) as a practical
target size for WARC files, when record sizes permit. Oversized records
may be truncated, segmented, or placed in oversized WARC files, at the
discretion of the software implementer.

It is helpful to use practices within an institution that make it
unlikely or impossible to duplicate aggregate WARC file names. The
convention used inside the Internet Archive with ARC or WARC files is to
name files according to the following pattern (here for WARC files):

Prefix-Timestamp-Serial-Crawlhost.warc.gz

Prefix is an abbreviation usually reflective of the project or crawl
that created this file. Time-stamp is a 14-digit GMT time-stamp
indicating the time the file was initially begun. Serial is an
increasing serial number within the process creating the files, often
(but not necessarily) unique with regard to the prefix. Crawlhost is the
domain name or IP address of the machine creating the file.

Annex D: *(informative)* Compression recommendations
====================================================

General
-------

The WARC format defines no internal compression. Whether and how WARC
files should be compressed is an external decision.

However, experience with the precursor ARC format at the Internet
Archive has demonstrated that applying simple standard compression can
result in significant storage savings, while preserving random access to
individual records.

For this purpose, the GZIP format with customary "deflate" compression
is recommended, as defined in \[RFC 1950\], \[RFC 1951\], and \[RFC
1952\]. Freely available source code implementing this format is
available, and the technique is free of patent encumbrances. The GZIP
format is also widely used and supported across many free and commercial
software packages and operating systems.

This annex gives recommended, but optional, practices for compressing
WARC files with GZIP.

Record-at-time compression
--------------------------

As specified in 2.2 of the GZIP specification (see \[RFC 1952\]), a
valid GZIP file consists of any number of GZIP "members", each
independently compressed.

Where possible, this property should be exploited to compress each
record of a WARC file independently. This results in a valid GZIP file
whose per-record subranges also stand alone as valid GZIP files.

External indexes of WARC file content may then be used to record each
record's starting position in the GZIP file, allowing for random access
of individual records without requiring decompression of all preceding
records.

Note that the application of this convention causes no change to the
uncompressed contents of an individual WARC record.

GZIP WARC file name suffix
--------------------------

A GZIP compressed WARC file should have the customary ".gz" appended to
it, making the complete suffix, ".warc.gz".

Bibliography
============

\[1\] ARC BURNER M., KAHLE B. ARC File Format. 15 September 1996.
Available at: <http://www.archive.org/web/researcher/ArcFileFormat.php>

\[2\] DCMI DCMI Metadata Terms. Available at:
<http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/>

\[3\] RFC1950 DEUTSCH P., GAILLY J.-L. ZLIB Compressed Data Format
Specification version 3.3. May 1996 (TXT, PS, PDF). Available at:
<https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1950.txt>

\[4\] RFC1951 DEUTSCH P. Deflate. Compressed Data Format Specification
version 1.3. May 1996 (TXT, PS, PDF). Available at:
<https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1951.txt>

\[5\] RFC1952 DEUTSCH P. GZIP file format specification version 4.3. May
1996 (TXT, PS, PDF). <https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1952.txt>

\[6\] RFC2047 MOORE K. MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) Part
Three: Message Header Extensions for Non-ASCII Text. November 1996 (TXT,
HTML, XML). Available at: <https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2047.txt>

\[7\] RFC2048 FREED N., KLENSIN J., POSTEL J. Multipurpose Internet Mail
Extensions (MIME) Part Four: Registration Procedures. BCP 13, RFC 2048,
November 1996 (TXT, HTML, XML). Available at:
<https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2048.txt>

\[8\] RFC4501 JOSEFSSON S. Domain Name System Uniform Resource
Identifiers. May 2006. Available at: <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4501>

\[9\] RFC4648 JOSEFSSON S. The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data
Encodings. October 2006. Available at:
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4648>
